foreign
of you happening it's why the great
artists you see their full expression
and they can only get to that
self-expression they can only get to
that level of ease by having more and
more self-awareness
welcome to the art of accomplishment
where we explore how deepening
connection with ourselves and others
leads to creating the life we want with
enjoyment and ease I'm Brett Kistler
here today with my co-host Joe Hudson
[Music]
a lot of people have a sense that
self-development and accomplishment are
mutually exclusive that in order to be
maximally productive it's necessary to
sacrifice parts of who we are or to back
burner our own personal Evolution we
focus on creating systems for setting
and achieving goals we Imagine That by
doing this will somehow arrive at our
fully developed self without examining
where these goals came from in the first
place and so a question I often hear
asked is how will self-inquiry help me
be productive and lead to more
accomplishment
it's an amazing thing about the human
brain is what we really like to create
false distinctions it's something that
we do I think it's because the brain in
general its job is to create distinction
it likes to create false distinction you
know it's very much to me like
the way it was in 1970s when you could
either be a businessman or you could be
an environmentalist but you couldn't be
both that they were at odds
and then somewhere in the 90s they
figured out nope you can do both that's
possible it's the same thing with this
and in fact they
really Drive each other that the
personal development Focus that that
course if you will
gets tested in business and gets tested
in projects gets tested and getting
things done and you get to learn a lot
from where the rubber meets the road and
vice versa that as you learn how to
understand yourself better and other
people better
which is the whole point of personal
development
then all of a sudden you get better
Tools in business and you do better at
getting things done it's why I always
use the phrase art of accomplishment
it's speaking about the fact that
accomplishing stuff is more about the
how than it is about the what you get
done
so you can accomplish something and your
focus could be like my job is to earn a
million dollars
but in actuality you're going to be less
likely to earn that million dollars if
you're not focused on the how you're
going about it I'll give you an example
of this my girlfriend in college her
name was Kate and she would sir she was
a really good tennis player and she
would
with her coach she would serve and try
to hit like a basket one of those
baskets that you pick up the balls with
and she would hit it like she was good
so she did two or three out of five
times and then one day the coach took
the basket off the ground and put a
quarter right in the middle of where
that basket was sitting and said sir and
hit the quarter she didn't hit the
quarter once but she would have hit the
basket every single time if it was still
sitting on top of that quarter the thing
that we see in business all the time
which is focusing through the goal is
one of the ways to make sure you
accomplish your goals so whether it be
being the best company in the world or
whether means beating the competition or
whether it means trying to change the
world for the better through
Environmental Solutions or whether it
means great customer service whatever it
is having a goal that's beyond the goal
that you have makes the goal it makes
the goal more likely to be gotten tell
me what makes this an art think about it
like this there's accomplishment and
accomplishment basically means that
you've achieved something successfully
successful is the first question that
you have to ask what does successful
mean
successfully means to me it means that
the task is done holistically right so
is it accomplishment to make ten dollars
if that's my goal if I also like
sacrificed everything I love for that
ten dollars that doesn't make any sense
at all that doesn't feel like
accomplishment so it's a holistic
success it means that you're you're
firing on all cylinders that you're
getting the whole thing done it's think
about it like a building success isn't
just getting the building erected it's a
quality building it's a beautiful
building it's a useful building that's
what makes success so you're looking for
the holistic thing and then
if you're thinking about it as far as an
art form
then you have to move out of the tyranny
of a checklist right which is like I've
written something down now I have to do
it or I'm going to beat myself up
because I haven't done it
and it's going to move into how you do
it how is it that I'm going about doing
it and that's what makes it an art form
and there's very specific things there's
if you think about art in general what
art does is it the art of artistry of
something it means that you have more
ease in doing it it's a path of
self-awareness and you recognize that
your Consciousness is the product let's
get into those further uh tell me more
about the ease because there's a lot of
things that we want to do that are
accomplishment that just simply are not
going to ever be easy
or so we think yeah so we think yeah
there's a couple ways to go at the ease
part of it one way to go at these part
of it is to think about like there's an
old story about a prince coming to a
butcher and he says to the butcher how
often do you sharpen your knives and
butcher says I never sharpen my knives
and the prince goes that's impossible
the best butchers in the world have to
sharpen their knives at least once a
month
and the butcher says no no my my blade
finds the space between the meat and the
bone and it's basically saying how you
get things done is with the minimal
amount of friction that the master of a
craft
is doing it with the least moves it's
not about winning or losing anymore
they're far beyond the winning and
losing of something it's just how do I
do it with the least amount of effort
and what's amazing in our society is
that we think about
Effectiveness or efficiency in speed as
humans not as cars right cars is really
obvious
the fastest car doesn't mean it's the
most efficient car
but we think that if we've gotten done
something quickly then we're very
efficient
but efficiency isn't measured by speed
it's measured in in The Human Condition
it's measured by enjoyment that we are
efficient when we are enjoying ourselves
it means the least amount of effort is
necessary the least amount of fuel is
necessary to make something happen
so if you're accomplishing something
with that kind of ease when you're
accomplishing something with enjoyment
which is how we measure that ease then
you're in the Artistry of it that's what
I mean by ease yeah that makes a lot of
sense because I mean the opposite of
ease is
uh that you are actually fighting
yourself in some way right there's a
part of you that doesn't want to do the
thing another party that does want to do
the thing and so there's there's
dissonance there and a loss of
efficiency so it's interesting to think
of efficiency as ease or measured by
ease yeah exactly which is beautifully
put because what you're saying there is
the friction is mostly caused by the
lack of self-awareness when you
understand what you are when you are
aware of how you work there's a lot less
friction and that's why the second part
is so important the Artistry brings you
closer to yourself
if you've ever met a great Artisan
there's a way when you at least when
they're working at the very least when
they're working you see
this kind of self-awareness this
presence that occurs that self-awareness
it brings you closer to yourself it
calls you into something deeper it has
to be a full expression of you
when you're self-aware it means that
there's a full expression of you
happening it's why the great artists you
see their full expression it's they
don't feel muted or stilted
and they can only get to that
self-expression they can only get to
that level of
ease by having more and more
self-awareness and the self-awareness of
how they work that sounds similar to
what might happen if somebody's you know
looking at a to-do list of things they
want to get done and I think efficiency
is efficiently knocking out all the
boxes but what might be actually more
efficient is asking themselves why they
want to get that list done in the first
place and maybe if there's you know one
question they could ask themselves that
removes half of that list that is
actually an increase in efficiency it
sounds like this is the like the
personal version of doing that like why
is it that I want to be getting these
things done why is it that I want to be
successful what does success actually
bring to me yeah that's a beautiful
Point that's exactly right that when I
look at my list every morning I always
think about
what can I do that'll make this whole
list irrelevant or easier and it's the
same thing with the meta list in life
like there's a beautiful technique that
you can use which is okay if I get that
done then am I happy then
and then your mind will usually go no
I'll need this and say okay well then if
I get that done you know will I be happy
then and it can just go on and on yeah
it's like asking the one the making the
one decision that can eliminate 100
other decisions it's finding perhaps in
many of these cases the one need within
us that resolves a hundred other
secondary needs that we thought we
needed to fill that's exactly it and
that's what self-awareness does just by
its nature so you mentioned that your
Consciousness is the product that you're
working on in that case so let's dig
into that a little bit more yeah that's
the last part of what makes it an art
form is that you know if you're looking
at a piece of art there's a way in which
you can feel like a painting you can
feel
how the artist was when they were
painting and when the artist
acknowledges that then what the artist
can do is is really understand that
their Consciousness is what is being
consumed and it doesn't matter if it's
Facebook or Ford or Van Gogh we're
feeling the consciousness of those
people who made it we're feeling that
experience and if they were anxious and
nervous then were perpetuating
anxiousness and nervousness if they were
worried about not having enough they're
going to make sure that we are worried
about not having enough when we use that
product when we consume their
Consciousness and so it seems even more
true these days as like a lot of a lot
more consumers are thinking about
products that they feel much more
personally aligned with rather than just
like oh look it's a jug of milk it's
like no no because this is a jug of milk
that treats cows in a way that is you
know more agreeable to me or this is the
company that is working on making more
fuel efficient or electric cars and
that's something that really speaks to
me so
what you're saying is that even even a
company even a product is a piece of art
and that the consciousness of its
creators
should come through in that it does you
just can't help it there's a great quote
that my friend Steve used to say to me
he said at the peak of a poet's career
he is a businessman and the peak of a
businessman's career he is a poet
or she is a poet or she is a businessman
it is an absolute truth that how we get
something done affects what it is the
end product of our doing and it's as
simple as if we rush to sweep the porch
or if we enjoy sweeping the porch
we're going to get two different jobs
done and and it's going to look
different at the end of it and so our
Consciousness affects it and it's the
acknowledgment that that's the case that
the real thing that we're the real gift
that we're giving to the world isn't the
product
that's tangible it's the product of our
Consciousness that we're delivering and
acknowledging that the Consciousness is
part of the equation of the product that
it is in part the product that we are
producing and that other people are
consuming is what makes it an art form
not just a doing yeah I think another
great example of that would be in
software development any software that's
developed by a team that's frenetically
running around trying to finish
completing their backlog uh and the
product and Engineering aren't
communicating with each other very well
that product is going to end up having
you know having that Consciousness writ
large in its implementation in bugs and
you know missed like features that don't
make sense
Etc exactly so let's talk a little bit
more about how our Consciousness as the
product of this work a lot of people
would see that as odds with business
because the focus is moving away from
from perhaps the business itself towards
yourself what would you say to them
again it's a lot like the 70s with the
environmentalism you can make money
cutting down trees you can make money
planting trees you can make money
making all of your product artistic you
can make money making all of your
product as cheap as possible so there's
a thousand ways to make money like just
walk down the street
of any City and you will everything you
look at has got seven or eight or ten
people making money behind it there's
infinite ways of making money
and the idea that
how we are when we make the money isn't
part of that equation is just silliness
it's something that happens when people
don't want to feel their whole
experience and they make the excuse that
oh it's just business or they make the
excuse that you know I had to do this
because it's business and and the
craziest thing is is you look at
incredibly successful businessmen who
are just merciless in their uh desire
for winning competition or for quality
or for customer service and they will
never allow a team to
not deliver or or allow a team to
sacrifice the important things
and yet as soon as the idea is like oh
we can all be growing as humans or that
we can all be having full expression
here comes up there like no can't do
that we can out-compete we can build a
billion dollar company we can
out-compete over-resourced competition
but we can't also do it in such a way
that we really enjoy ourselves it's it's
a ridiculous notion and it comes from an
inner thought that they have that they
can't beat them for their full selves
and be successful that they had to cut
off a part of themselves to be
successful and that normally just comes
from the fact that they had to cut out a
part of themselves to make Mom and Dad
happy and that's where it's really
coming from it's just it's just very
limited thinking or a belief that
productivity and achievement require
sacrifice yeah and so if you're feeling
sacrificed that might mean you're on the
right track to achievement right let's
take a look at that one for a second who
sacrificed more the guy who created men
who created Google or the men who
created benetti tires
who worked harder
who put their family at bigger risk it's
just nonsensical to think who worked
harder
it's nonsensical to think that that
there is that that level of sacrifice
needed there's people who make millions
of dollars without it millions of
dollars with it
it's what do you enjoy it's what do you
love if you love working 80 hours a week
and you love that kind of productivity
don't tell everybody it's necessary just
say it's what you did and you loved it I
I listened to Elon Musk talk about this
first thing he just talked about you
have to work all the time
and I thought to myself you had to work
all the time when you had one company
now you have three companies or four
companies or five companies and you're
still working all the time which really
means that you only had to work 25 of
the time to do the company that you
originally did yeah you didn't have to
work all the time and you're proving it
yeah that's a really good point so a lot
of people say that they you know they
have to get a paycheck and so this all
this art sounds great but you know
they're they're not in that position or
maybe they're not running their own
company maybe they're in in some kind of
hierarchy and they're some organization
or even if they do have their own
company they just well you know I have
to make money like I have to make money
now uh or you know on this with this
particular Runway so I just don't have
time to make this an art I lived in Los
Angeles for a while I lived next to
this um first generation from Central
America family just sweethearts and the
sun when he decided it was time to go
out to work he was like 18 years old and
he worked at a subway
and when he was working at the subway he
just did it with Pizzazz he did it with
friendliness he did it with a joy he did
it with
a bit of a like a singing like he was
just like he was just one of those
characters that you you've had the
experience you've gone into some place
and there's somebody on the other side
of the counter who's
enjoying themselves in their maybe
singing or they got a little Pizzazz one
that he was one of those people and he
worked there I think for three weeks
until somebody walked in and was like
hey I have a restaurant and I need
someone and then within another six
months he was the sous chef and then you
know it just like he just kept on going
I don't know where he is now but
that was the example to me that it
doesn't matter what you're doing if you
do it with Artistry you're creating the
world that you want
and the idea that you can't do that in
any situation I mean
Mandela did it in a prison
how he wanted to be the Artistry that he
was delivering to humanity was there
when he was in a prison so to think that
you can't do it because you're in a
bureaucracy is again it's just as
limited of the thinking as a businessman
saying we can't be whole humans and do
business it's just and the crazy thing
about that that I think people don't
recognize is if you think you can't do
it because of your situation then you're
owning the position of a victim it's
like somebody
whose life is oppressing them and if you
have that position there's only two
people who really want to spend time
with you other victims and people who
abuse you
because that's the only people who you
have that value for right victims other
victims will be like
great yes we're oppressed let's all talk
about how oppressed we are and
the abusers are like cool you you feel
like you're oppressed great I will
oppress you that that's exactly what I
need to get my world cranking and so the
the mentality of that invites it just
like all of our mentalities invite the
world that we see to become real right
yeah that could be an entire episode of
its own and I'm sure it will be yeah so
how does how does a person get to this
place then yeah so there's three bits on
how a person gets to seeing all of their
accomplishments as art to seeing that
there's an art of accomplishment and
the first is an intention I don't call
it a goal I don't call it a mandate
it's just holding it in your
Consciousness that this is where I want
to be it's like looking at a map and
saying Los Angeles is where I want to be
or San Francisco is where I want to be
it doesn't require any more weight than
that it's like an implementation
agnostic goal yes exactly yeah that's
right and so like if you dig into that a
little bit there's this um story about
an admiral I can't remember his name who
was
taken in the POW camps in Vietnam and he
was asked who got out of the camps he
said that's easy it was the people who
knew they would get out then the
interviewer asked who didn't get out of
the camps he said that's easy it's the
optimists and the interviewer was
confused and said
Optimist what do you mean how is that
different than your first answer he said
the optimists were the ones who thought
the get out by Christmas or by Easter or
by the rainy season they were the ones
that didn't make it so the intention is
just holding that intention out there
knowing that you're going to arrive
there
so that's the first bit the second bit
is take it all as an iteration there's
no failure
there's no
success there's just I am learning by
iterating and experimenting iterating
and experimenting iterating and
experimenting I don't have to be hard on
myself to
learn lessons I don't have to be hard on
myself because I had a certain time
frame it's just a very gentle iteration
iteration iteration just the way you
would think an artist would do after a
20-year career so they kept on playing
kept on trying and new and crazier
things came out
and then
the last part is to know that it's not
really a doing it's you asked how does a
person get there but it's it's not a
doing it's an undoing we're just
basically learning to undo
a whole bunch of training and be in a
natural state and I'll give you a great
example of it so if you put your two
hands together
and put it like let's say that the palms
of your hands in front of your face
and try as hard as you can to pull your
hands apart and if your hands are apart
right now you're not trying you're doing
so forget the doing and just go to the
drawing
and try
as hard as you can
to pull your hands apart
and now without thinking about it
feel the exact opposite thing that you
feel when you're trying
that's what it means to undo you're
you're undoing and so that's that's what
you do if to make all of your
accomplishment Artistry to make life the
art of accomplishment
then you're undoing yeah it's
interesting as I did that there's a
doing the try there's like a sense of
planning going on throughout my entire
system like imagining which muscles I
would move and how to to move my hands
apart and I can do all of that without
actually moving at all
and it feels like a good metaphor for
you know beating myself up over a to-do
list that's exactly it so then what are
we undoing exactly and what does that
help us accomplish or how does that help
us to accomplish things the main thing
that you're undoing is this
misconception that you aren't inherently
good like we have basically what we're
undoing is a whole bunch of limiting
beliefs
there's probably about seven main
limiting beliefs but there's they're all
resting on one limiting belief and the
one limiting belief is that you're not
inherently good that you have to put
effort to make yourself good enough
of value better
that it's not your natural place that
you're not there yet
so if you think about an oak tree when
is an oak tree good enough is the oak
tree good enough when it's an acorn or
when it's too years old or when it's 150
years old or when it's collapsing when
it's becoming dirt when is it good
enough
when is it not inherently good and
that's the thing that we think about
ourselves is that we have
some place to be to get inherently good
and or some way of being and what's
actually preventing us from acting in an
inherently good way is is only the idea
that we're not
it's only the idea that we've done
something wrong right I think that's a
really good point because there's a
really big Pitfall that I've experienced
in personal development or you know
trying to become more productive or work
on my systems of of accomplishments
where we start to see how everybody else
is doing things and we're like oh man
like I'm just I need to get from where I
am to where they are by somehow making
myself better
because I'm not good enough and if only
I had this person's system or you know
that person's motivation and drive
or that person's Clarity if I could get
there then I would be able to get get
things done which just really does
reinforce that oh I'm just not there yet
I just don't have it in me right yeah
silently yeah exactly which just slows
down the whole system that like a baby
doesn't think that they're bad because
they're crawling
they're gonna walk they don't need to
think that they're bad because they're
crawling it's just a natural part of the
developmental cycle and there's that
form of goodness and there's also the
other form of goodness which is
every time you defend something in
yourself there's some way that you're
believing that you're not inherently
good that you have to defend something
about yourself I don't mean defense like
someone tries to throw a punch you block
it I mean defense like someone accuses
you of being bad and you think you have
to justify something what would make you
need to justify something if somebody
came to view and said the sky is purple
at noon the sky is purple would you
really need to defend the fact that the
sky was blue
right so there's some inherent belief
system that there's there's something
that there's a shame that there's
something wrong with us
and that's part of the inherent goodness
that once you understand that that is
your natural state there's so much less
to be doing so much less
so I'll give you an example for a second
about how it works it's
let's say one of the limiting beliefs
that I see people do all the time is
that Perfection is more important than
connection right and so they think that
they need to be perfect because they
think that they're not good enough or
their thing needs to be perfect or their
presentation needs to be perfect or
their product needs to be perfect or the
date needs to go perfect or whatever it
is
and they focus on that trying to make it
perfect instead of how do I connect
so they they choose Perfection over
connection and if they choose connection
they're far more successful
and they will choose it naturally if
they don't think that they have to be
perfect to be good enough or to be good
specifically how this works
you can try to create the perfect
product or you can try to create a
product that's in connection with your
customer and to stay in connection with
your customer and the second is going to
do much better than the perfect product
if you have a first date and you're
trying to be perfect
that's not going to go so well even if
they happen to have a second date for
you you've been trying to be perfect so
they're not dating you they're dating
some idealized version of yourself and
eventually that shit's gonna go sideways
whereas if you just go for the
connection if you say oh how do I
connect with this person and let's see
if it's a match then it's a far more
productive stance and the place where
it's like most articulated is in
meditation where people try to have the
perfect experience of meditating
instead of being in connection with
themselves and it's the difference
between torture and meditation
meditation is connection managing
yourself is torture yeah yeah I spent a
long time in meditation
you know doing maybe an hour of practice
every day just because I was really
stressed out about work and you know
beating myself up over to-do list you
know the usual and so I would meditate
more and more and find that it would
call my mind but my my goal in
meditation was to calm my mind not to
feel what I needed to feel right and uh
that really just kind of pulled me away
from from the emotions that we're trying
to help me update to my situation yeah I
find that if you're trying to manage
your experience it's pulling you away
from yourself instead of being with what
you are and enjoying it so tell me some
more of those limiting beliefs there's a
couple others that I can think about
um there is
foreign
Improvement
instead of being authentic right so
that's the one that you mentioned
earlier in the podcast where you were
talking about wanting to be better at
this or better than that instead of
wanting to know what you actually are
right so I I want to be enlightened
instead of wanting to know what I am the
wanting to be enlightened path is a far
slower path right than wanting to know
what I am I want to work successfully 60
hours a week is far less effective than
understanding what your natural rhythm
is and what your natural way of being
most most productive is so it's it's
that constant question of like trying to
improve yourself instead of find out
what your authenticity is or I want 100
million users versus I want this to
improve people's lives right if it's
authentic that you want 100 million
users
if that's really the thing that's going
to charge you then that might be your
authenticity but then the question is
what do you have to do that is authentic
to you to get them instead of
how do I make my podcast so great that
they get them that I get the users what
are some others other ones is uh shoulds
before wants I find people always are
trying to motivate themselves with their
shoulds instead of with their wants and
wants are far more motivating and far
more effective at getting us places if
you think about the first seven years of
your life you couldn't even have shoulds
and then all of a sudden
should show up in every all your
development slows down you get more
development in the first seven years of
your life than you do pretty much at any
other time of your life
and it's when you stop following your
wants and you start following your
shoulds that everything gets slowed down
and again like with both of these it's
whether the only way you would think oh
I need to improve instead of I need to
be authentic is if you think that you're
not inherently good and the only way you
would think I should do that instead of
I want to do that is because you think
that you aren't inherently good I think
there's seven of them but the other one
that's just coming to mind right now is
the one we spoke about defense versus
love
that most of us immediately move to
defend ourselves rather than love the
person so you the quintessential example
of this is the boss you know it tells
you what you need to do to improve and
most people get defensive instead of
saying to themselves oh my goodness my
boss just took a social risk on me
potentially you know risked our
relationship because he cared or she
cared enough to help me be successful
we don't think oh wow thanks thanks for
taking the risk of telling me that yeah
it's quite a flip on the usual script
right because we moved from defense
instead of love
so these are all the ways and we only
have to do that if we think we're not
inherently good
yeah so how does seeing your inherent
goodness tie into the art part of this
art of accomplishment if you see that
you're inherently good then obviously
Things become more enjoyable and more
easy because there's less fight that you
have with yourself so that's just simple
it's and the the more that you focus on
your enjoyment the more you stop having
the fight with yourself you know there's
this quote though in a war with yourself
you're always going to lose and so that
enjoyment comes to a large degree
because you're you're fighting with
yourself as ceased or slowed down and
that happens when you see your inherent
goodness so that's part of how that
works and then
when you fully realize that your
Consciousness is what is coming through
whatever product you're creating
then the question is what's the
Consciousness that you want to give to
other folks
if you're coming from a place of
understanding your inherent goodness
then that's the product that you're
going to be creating is one that ties
people into their inherent goodness and
it doesn't it's not so limiting as one
might think
meaning take a look at like some of the
great artists of our day I'll use a
comedian because yeah I'll give you an
example because it's some people might
not even call them an artist but Jim
Carrey he is if you listen to his story
and this is so much the case it's like
they were going about their career it
wasn't going so well and then all of a
sudden they just were like I am going
all the way I am not going to hold back
I'm gonna take the big risk of my full
expression
I'm going to basically trust that if I
just go all the way with myself things
are going to work out then I'm going to
trust that goodness
and then all of a sudden Boulder and
Bolder things come out of the artist Jim
Carrey is the example of this and when
we watch it maybe we think it's
confidence we're like oh my God that guy
could do all that crazy stuff how
confident must they be
but it's really a confidence in
something that's beyond them it's a
confidence in their inherent goodness
and so when you see that in people like
we just naturally want to follow it we
just naturally want to be a part of that
it's why we see so much of that in some
of the greatest movers and shakers of
our time people who have accomplished
just amazing things in their lives is
that full Trust
I guess one of the ways to look at it is
to see it as it's like channeling you
can only Channel if you trust what's
coming through you
and that channeling is what it starts to
feel like when you are deeply
when you're deeply in the art of
accomplishment but way to look at the
art of accomplishment is like in some
traditions they would call channeling
they would call it cleaning out your
tube so that you could have
greater access to the thing that's
moving through all of us the animator of
all life neurology would call it alpha
waves
but it's that flow state
and being in that flow state
can only come when you can rely on your
inherent goodness if you're judging
yourself and you're questioning yourself
and you're in a fight with yourself you
can't be an alpha you can't be in Flow
State yeah another good way to describe
that I think is just something this idea
of channeling is acting from something
that's not that's coming from outside of
your identity of yourself
a lot of a lot of artists were talking
about Artistry here a lot of musicians
have talked about how when they were in
the flow and they were writing some of
their their biggest hits they felt like
it wasn't them doing the writing it was
just the words were coming through them
yeah we've all had this experience we've
all had the experience of
playing music without having to think
about it or just channeling the emails
and you know just knowing exactly what
to write and we've all had the
experience of
being in that flow State and that only
comes when we can trust our inherent
goodness I think that's that's the
feeling people are trying to get at when
they're knocking out a to-do list
finding themselves in that flow right I
think a lot of this is just it's not
about the to-do list it's about what it
is that you actually want to be doing
yes and it's about allowing the lack of
fight to be in your system right our
system by Nature doesn't want to fight
with itself and so to allow that to
happen really allows the flow state to
occur and then the final bit is as I
think you already kind of mentioned it
it's the self-awareness
which is
the only way that we're ever going to
see that we're inherently good is for us
to see what we inherently are
and it requires us to drop the stories
of ourselves and the ideas of ourselves
and it requires us to love the ego like
right into Oblivion
that self-awareness is
what allows us to
see that we're not just channeling it we
are it
that what we thought we were small but
what we really are is
part of everything and when we see
ourselves as everything when our
identity switches from the little me
to the whole
then the inherent goodness is it's all
everything is in that inherent goodness
and there's just a piece that comes with
it and that's why when you see those
artists who have you know 50 years at
the
carving table and you see that just this
piece in them the piece of artistry of a
deep Artistry that's where it comes from
as we start to view accomplishment more
as an art what is going to change about
the way that we do things and how do we
address that fear
that might exist that getting into this
personal development stuff is going to
make us even for a period of time less
productive if we are if we have a
18-hour workday right now and that's the
thing that we're doing and it just feels
like the whole house of cards is going
to collapse if we just take one day off
from that
what's the step forward they did this
great study in the US Army and the study
was that they took a test two tests that
were the same test but different you
know reliable and whatnot and they took
a group of uh soldiers in boot camp and
they just worked them to death and had
them sleep deprived and then they put
them in front of the test and they did
the test and then they let them rest for
a couple days r r and then they came
back they weren't sleep deprived and
they did the test and then they asked
the soldiers of these two tests which
one did you think you scored better at
and which one do you think you did
quicker and 80 of the people thought
that they had done quicker
work and more accurate work on the first
test when they were sleep deprived and
in actuality a hundred percent of them
did better when they had rest and they
were not being rushed through the whole
situation so it tells us that we have a
mental illusion that happens like an
optical illusion and we think that when
we're when we're busy and we were sleep
deprived and we're running around
checking off boxes
we think we're more efficient when in
actuality we're not that's not the
multitasking uh studies as well where
they proved that people really do not
multitask they just think they multitask
that they're actually their performance
actually degrades yeah exactly it's
exactly the same principle so the first
thing is to acknowledge that situation
and then to to start to disassociate the
idea of ease with productivity I mean
some people just because they're only
productive when they're in friction they
think that productivity is friction
and to see to really find real ways of
measuring are you getting the stuff done
and not working as hard or enjoying
yourself more to really find that out
you know and it's interesting it's this
culture it's
you didn't work 60 hours why are you
lazy and in other cultures that I've
been doing particularly some in Europe
they're like you had to work 60 hours to
get your job done why are you so
incompetent it's just a completely
different way to take a look at it so
that's the first kind of thing to know
and then the second part of your
question is like how do things change
well you get bigger things done you get
things that are more aligned in your
system done you don't sacrifice your
well-being from the accomplishment of
your career your money but you don't
sacrifice your career and your money
so that you can have better well-being
the dichotomy starts to go away and you
see
that your work is a means to an end of
your well-being and that the well-being
is a means and an end to your work that
they become the same thing they they
stop being coming separate in your
system
and their the nervous system starts to
relax you start doing things like
oh I can move this lever here and I just
have to wait for a couple months and
everything will fall into place or I
could put two weeks in and I will have
it done in one month instead of two
like you start to see these little
leverage points you see
that the world is more as a system it's
the way the artists talk about it is
like carving artists they'll talk about
they see the work in the wood before
they even get started
it's not about I have an idea of what I
want it to look like and I'm going to
carve it into the wood it's like the
wood is telling me what it wants to be
carved into
but it wants to be made into and that's
the experience of life in general is
that you're following it's like the
taoists talk about it as the way of
water that it all
water doesn't require any effort to get
to the ocean it just follows it just
goes to the lowest point it is
effortless in its way and it is more
powerful than any sword try to fight
water with the sword and you'll know
that's the way that it starts to feel
that life starts to feel so what you're
saying earlier is that a lot of this
work is actually an undoing an undoing
of the the limiting misconceptions of
self
so if you look at the martial arts they
really subscribe a lot of the same
Theory to what that what I'm talking
about and it's
one of the ways is that you your whole
body is relaxed until the moment of
impact
so if I was going to tense the whole
time and hit you my punch is a lot less
powerful than if I'm relaxed the whole
time and then tense right before I hit
you and it's conserving your energy
and making you stronger at the same time
and making your movement have more
impact
and we somehow think walking around
tents all the time is going to make us
more effective and it just it's like
it's just kind of ridiculous right and
also keep us narrowed and focused too
because when we're if we're walking
around tents about all the things that
we're thinking about getting done we're
not asking the bigger questions that
really help us find you know that one
decision that can eliminate 100
decisions
and so a lot of what you're talking
about this idea of breaking down these
misconceptions of the self and trusting
and leaning back into our inherent
goodness letting go of the trying and
just being in the doing a lot of that
allows us our entire nervous system and
our minds
to relax and see outside of the boxes of
any
any of the shorter term tasks are
thinking that we're doing which really
helps us to
to really guide our lives on a grander
scale and drive our businesses
because we could spend several months
working on
go go go getting one particular project
done pushing one feature that part way
through the process we could have easily
if we had a big enough view determined
that the landscape had changed and that
this is becoming a waste of effort yes
it happens on fractal levels it happens
on wow I've just spent 20 years creating
a life that I don't want
and it happens on I just spent
two months doing a project that my boss
really didn't give a if I did and I
just spent the last two minutes
worrying about something that I could
have spent
creating something right I think that's
one of the things that makes this so
counter-intuitive is that it's often
it's just much easier to think oh I'm
almost there I just need to do this that
and the other thing that are in line
with my past 20 years of
plan and that'll get me there which is a
much easier thing to experience for many
than the recognition that maybe 20 years
of my life has been spent further and
further away from my authenticity right
and getting me there is the Crux that's
the bit is that the idea that where you
are right now isn't good enough and you
see this all the time in business where
you see
somebody who's been successful talking
to somebody who's trying to be
successful and the person who's trying
to be successful is like well you're
able to be so
confident so being able to say yes or no
to things so nonchalant about
opportunities because you already have
success and there's some truth to that
there's no doubt about it but
what I've seen is that the people who
hold that position invite the success
more than the people then they get it
and what I notice in my business is that
the more that I became picky the more
that I decided it just wasn't worth it
if I didn't do the thing that I wanted
to do and I started rejecting clients or
I started rejecting Investments or I
started
rejecting really good deals then all of
a sudden more and more good deals more
and more good clients started showing up
and that comes when you aren't in that
place of fear that you need to prove
something to be good enough to be loved
it comes when you can trust your
inherent goodness yeah I think that
speaks a lot to this reciprocal nature
of uh accomplishment versus personal
development it seems that many of us
think that accomplishment is going to
give us the confidence and so if we just
go for accomplishment first then we'll
have the confidence and what you're
saying is that we can build the
confidence we can build you know not
just a false sense of confidence but if
we are confident in who we actually are
then that will lead to the
accomplishment which then can feedback
because there is a little bit of
feedback loop like you said once you've
been successful doing something it
definitely helps you yeah feel that way
but we can actually work on that
personal side directly and everything
else is Downstream of there yeah I would
I wouldn't even call it confidence it's
like the closest word that our society
knows to put on it because confidence
kind of feels like or at least the way
it's interpreted is I'm good enough for
it's not really I'm good enough it's
just I know what I am I just know what I
am I know what I like I know what I want
and I am committed to being a full
expression of that that's the key thing
and that knowing who you are and really
finding out that's what the like the
real cool part about the whole journey
is right because to do that
you have to see that you're inherently
good and then to do that you have to see
that you would hit what you inherently
are and then that requires us to drop
these stories and our ideas of ourselves
and it requires us to
just
allow the ego to be loved into Oblivion
and that's
and that transforms us into an artist
yeah and the artist transforms us into
that to see ourselves as everything
allows us to have that energy when we
move in the world instead of to see
ourselves as this limited thing well
thanks again for your time thank you a
pleasure
thanks for listening to the art of
accomplishment if you enjoyed what you
heard today please subscribe and rate US
on your podcast app we'd love your
feedback so feel free to send us
questions or comments you can reach out
to us join our newsletter or check out
our courses at Art of accomplishment.com
foreign